# n engl j med 394;10  nejm.org  March 5, 2026

**整理：謝慕揚 MD, PhD, FESC**
**日期：2026-03-26**

---

1011
The new engl and jour nal of medicine
Clinical Problem-Solving
Author affiliations are listed at the end of the 
article. Michael P. Motley can be contact-
ed at ­mpmotley@​­email​.­unc​.­edu or at the 
Division of Infectious Diseases, Depart-
ment of Medicine, University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill, 130 Mason Farm 
Rd., 2nd Fl., Chapel Hill, NC 27514. Salma M.A. Gayed and Michael P. Motley 
contributed equally to this article. N Engl J Med 2026;394:1011-7. DOI: 10.1056/NEJMcps2508044
Copyright © 2026 Massachusetts Medical Society. A 47-year-old man was transported to the emergency department (ED) by emergency 
medical services (EMS) after being found dyspneic in his car. He reported a history of 
drinking 4 to 6 alcoholic beverages per day and stated that he had been drinking alcohol 
for 6 hours before presentation. During the previous 2 hours, he had had a sensation of 
tongue swelling, along with difficulty breathing. He reported no headache, sore throat, 
odynophagia, nausea, vomiting, rash, itching, or swelling of the face or limbs. He stated 
that he had a penicillin allergy. He reported no recent use of medications, consumption 
of new foods, or insect bites. He had had multiple ED visits for alcohol intoxication over 
the course of the previous 2 years (with the most recent visit occurring 10 days before 
presentation); he also had a history of chronic thrombocytopenia and of episodes of 
delirium tremens. He reported that he was taking no medications on a long-term basis. 
Other social history was limited owing to his acute condition, but previous documenta-
tion from a social worker indicated that he was unemployed and living with his mother 
locally in the southeastern United States. On arrival at the ED, the patient had a blood pressure of 139/102 mm Hg, a pulse of 
104 beats per minute, a respiratory rate of 22 breaths per minute, and an oxygen satura-
tion of 91% while he was breathing ambient air. He was afebrile but diaphoretic, and he 
was awake and alert although intermittently inattentive. He had slurred, muffled speech 
but could speak full sentences without stridor or cough. No facial edema or tongue 
swelling was present. The lungs were clear on auscultation, and the abdomen was soft 
and nontender. En route to the ED, he had received treatment with epinephrine, diphen-
hydramine, and glucocorticoids, but his symptoms did not abate. The differential diagnosis of dyspnea is broad, but the associated muffled speech 
implies an upper-airway process. The initiation of treatment for possible anaphylaxis 
or angioedema was appropriate. However, the patient has no tongue or other swelling 
that would suggest angioedema, and he has no urticaria, flushing, gastrointestinal 
symptoms, or hypotension that would be suggestive of anaphylaxis. In addition, the 
rate of symptom progression (over a period of hours) and the lack of a reduction in 
symptoms with epinephrine would be atypical for anaphylaxis. Oropharyngeal infec-
tions such as peritonsillar abscesses, infections of the deep neck spaces, and acute 
epiglottitis should be considered, but the absence of fever, odynophagia, and sore 
throat argue against such infections. Acute alcohol intoxication can cause dysarthria 
and impaired airway protection; however, the patient could speak coherently in com-
plete sentences during the initial assessments. Close examination of the oropharynx, 
an otolaryngologic evaluation, and possibly computed tomography (CT) of the head 
and neck are indicated. The Eyes Have It
Salma M.A. Gayed, M.D.,1 Michael P. Motley, M.D., Ph.D.,1 
Julia M. Carlson, M.D.,2 Kiersten S. Lupu, M.D.,3  
and Nikolaos Mavrogiorgos, M.D.1​
In this Journal feature, information about a real patient is presented in stages (boldface type) to an expert 
clinician, who responds to the information by sharing relevant background and reasoning with the reader 
(regular type). The authors’ commentary follows. CME
The New England Journal of Medicine is produced by NEJM Group, a division of the Massachusetts Medical Society. Downloaded from nejm.org at National Taiwan University on March 5, 2026. 
 Copyright © 2026 Massachusetts Medical Society. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.


n engl j med 394;10  nejm.org  March 5, 2026
1012
The new engl and jour nal of medicine
On arrival at the ED, the patient had vital-sign mea-
surements that were similar to those recorded on 
EMS assessment. The oral temperature was 37.3°C. 
The neck was supple, without palpable abnormali-
ties. His extraocular movements were abnormal; he 
could not direct either eye in any direction. No other 
neurologic deficits were reported. The white-cell 
count was 3800 per cubic millimeter, with 86% 
neutrophils, 5.5% lymphocytes, 6.7% monocytes, 
and no eosinophils. The hemoglobin level was 15.8 g 
per deciliter, and the platelet count was 58,000 per 
cubic millimeter. The results of a basic metabolic 
panel were normal. The total bilirubin level was 
1.6 mg per deciliter (27 μmol per liter; normal value, 
<1.2 mg per deciliter [<21 μmol per liter]), the as-
partate aminotransferase level 297 IU per liter (nor-
mal value, <34), the alanine aminotransferase level 
168 IU per liter (normal value, <49), the alkaline 
phosphatase level 61 IU per liter (normal value, 
<116), and the international normalized ratio 0.93. 
The blood ethanol level was 209 mg per deciliter 
(normal value, <10). Urine toxicology tests were 
negative for amphetamines, cocaine, barbiturates, 
benzodiazepines, cannabinoids, and narcotics. The 
serum lactate level was 1.5 mmol per liter (14 mg 
per deciliter; normal value, <1.8 mmol per liter 
[<16 mg per deciliter]). Chest radiography revealed low lung volumes 
and faint bibasilar opacities. The otolaryngology 
service was consulted for fiberoptic laryngoscopy, 
which revealed limited abduction of the vocal cords 
during phonation, with no tongue or airway swell-
ing. The patient received treatment with racemic 
epinephrine, an additional intramuscular 0.3-mg 
dose of epinephrine, methylprednisolone (at a dose 
of 125 mg), and intramuscular thiamine (at a dose 
of 500 mg). Despite these interventions, his respi-
ratory distress worsened, which prompted endo-
tracheal intubation. After intubation, a CT angio-
gram of the chest showed bibasilar atelectasis 
without evidence of pulmonary embolism (Fig. 1). 
Initial CT of the head showed no intracranial ab-
normalities, and CT venography and magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) of the head did not show 
venous sinus thrombosis, a mass lesion, or abnor-
mal enhancement. No abnormalities were ob-
served on diffusion-weighted sequences. The pa-
tient’s condition stabilized after pressure-support 
ventilation was initiated; the fraction of inspired 
oxygen was 0.40, and the oxygen saturation was 
97%. He remained hypertensive, with a blood pres-
sure of 160/90 mm Hg. The absence of oropharyngeal edema makes 
anaphylaxis and angioedema unlikely, and the 
presence of a normal glottis is inconsistent with 
epiglottitis. The vocal-cord paresis noted on la-
ryngoscopy explains his abnormal speech and 
increases his risk of oropharyngeal aspiration, 
which may underlie his respiratory failure. Oph-
thalmoplegia of both eyes points to an underlying 
neurologic cause. Many central neurologic causes 
are unlikely; the normal results on imaging of the 
head argue against cancer, vascular disease, and 
inflammatory disease, and the patient has no 
headache, fever, or neck stiffness that would sug-
gest meningitis. Neuroborreliosis or neurosyphi-
lis can affect the cranial nerves, but vocal-cord 
paresis would be expected to be a late finding; 
moreover, the patient does not live in a region in 
which Lyme disease is endemic. Other possible central causes of ophthalmople-
gia include Wernicke’s encephalopathy and Bicker-
staff’s brain-stem encephalitis. In addition to 
ophthalmoplegia, hallmarks of Wernicke’s en-
cephalopathy include ataxia and confusion, which 
were not apparent — but were also difficult to 
assess — in this intoxicated patient. Bickerstaff’s 
brain-stem encephalitis is an inflammatory disor-
der that may be manifested by ataxia, headache, 
seizures, altered mentation, various cranial-nerve 
deficits (including ophthalmoplegia), or a combi-
nation of these conditions. Both Wernicke’s en-
cephalopathy and Bickerstaff’s brain-stem en-
cephalitis lead to vocal-cord paresis and dysphagia 
in rare cases. Possible peripheral nervous system 
causes of ophthalmoplegia include myasthenia 
gravis, the Lambert–Eaton myasthenic syndrome 
Figure 1. CT Angiogram of the Chest. An initial CT angiogram of the chest shows bibasilar 
atelectasis. Note that the dark box in the upper right 
corner obscures equipment associated with the venti-
lator. The New England Journal of Medicine is produced by NEJM Group, a division of the Massachusetts Medical Society. Downloaded from nejm.org at National Taiwan University on March 5, 2026. 
 Copyright © 2026 Massachusetts Medical Society. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.


n engl j med 394;10  nejm.org  March 5, 2026
1013
Clinical Problem-Solving
(LEMS), the Guillain–Barré syndrome (including 
the Miller Fisher form of this syndrome), and botu-
lism. Of these possible causes, only the Guillain–
Barré syndrome is typically associated with trans-
aminitis, although it is usually a mild and transient 
form, whereas this patient has aminotransfer-
ase levels that are more consistent with alcohol-
associated disease or cirrhosis. In the intensive care unit (ICU), the patient received 
treatment with thiamine and folate, given the con-
cern about Wernicke’s encephalopathy, and was 
monitored for alcohol withdrawal, given his history 
of delirium tremens. The neurology service was 
consulted, and a comprehensive neurologic ex-
amination that was performed without sedation 
showed that he could open his eyes on command 
and could nod or shake his head appropriately to 
answer questions. The pupils were reactive and 
equal, but he could not move his eyes vertically or 
laterally; his eyes also did not move with passive 
head rotation. The corneal reflexes were intact, as 
was the cough reflex. Intermittent tremulous move-
ments were noted in both forearms. Motor strength 
was at least 3/5 in all four limbs. Sensation to light 
touch was intact. Reflexes were 2+ in the biceps, 
brachioradialis, and triceps of both arms; the patel-
lae; and the ankles. The Babinski reflex and Hoff-
mann’s sign were absent. An examination of the 
cerebellum was not performed. Wernicke’s encephalopathy is primarily a clinical 
diagnosis; early MRI can have low sensitivity. 
Given the favorable side-effect profile of thiamine 
coupled with the risk of progression of untreated 
Wernicke’s encephalopathy to Korsakoff’s syn-
drome (with potentially irreversible cognitive im-
pairment), thiamine (at a dose of 200 to 500 mg 
per day for up to 7 days) should be administered 
when clinical suspicion is high. Treatment is pru-
dent in this patient with ophthalmoplegia and 
alcohol use disorder, although the examination 
findings do not suggest encephalopathy. Peripheral 
nervous system processes such as the Guillain–
Barré syndrome and botulism remain important 
considerations in the differential diagnosis of oph-
thalmoplegia. Further workup, including a lumbar 
puncture, is warranted. The next day, while the patient was not under se-
dation, he no longer opened his eyes on command 
or withdrew in response to noxious stimuli. An 
electroencephalogram showed continuous low-
amplitude alpha activity. Later that evening, a fever 
with a temperature of up to 39.7°C developed, along 
with tachycardia (heart rate, 130 beats per minute), 
leukocytosis (white-cell count, 14,000 per cubic 
millimeter), and worsening hypoxemia (fraction 
of inspired oxygen, 0.70). Repeat chest radiography 
revealed consolidation in both lower lobes. The 
C-reactive protein level was 16 mg per liter (normal 
value, <10), and the lactate level was 2.6 mmol per 
liter (23 mg per deciliter). The patient received treat-
ment with ceftriaxone, but hypotension subsequent-
ly developed (blood pressure, 86/60 mm Hg). Given 
concern about possible ceftriaxone-mediated ana-
phylaxis, intramuscular epinephrine, methylpred-
nisolone (at a dose of 125 mg), and vasopressors 
were administered, and treatment with ceftriaxone 
was switched to levofloxacin and metronidazole. The patient’s new fever and hypotension are most 
likely due to sepsis resulting from aspiration pneu-
monia. The electroencephalogram shows a normal 
posterior-dominant rhythm, as occurs in a con-
scious patient with closed eyes, that is inconsistent 
with encephalopathy. Allergic reactions to third-
generation cephalosporins are uncommon, even 
among patients who have had anaphylaxis to 
penicillin. Alternatively, autonomic dysfunction, 
as occurs in patients with botulism or LEMS, may 
explain this patient’s hypotension. Although the 
Guillain–Barré syndrome can also cause auto-
nomic dysfunction, it is typically associated with 
episodes of both hypotension and hypertension. The next morning (hospital day 3), a neurologic ex-
amination revealed new loss of pupillary and cor-
neal reflexes, as well as new loss of cough and gag 
reflexes. He did not withdraw in response to nox-
ious stimuli, but spontaneous toe movement was 
observed. Motor reflexes were now absent through-
out; no pathologic reflexes were noted. Repeat 
CT of the head showed no new findings. A lumbar 
puncture was performed. Analysis of the cerebro-
spinal fluid (CSF) showed 1 nucleated cell per mi-
croliter, 0 erythrocytes per microliter, a protein level 
of 53 mg per deciliter (normal range, 20 to 59), and 
a glucose level of 140 mg per deciliter (7.8 mmol per 
liter; normal range, 48 to 79 mg per deciliter [2.7 to 
4.4 mmol per liter]). The serum glucose level, which 
had been measured in the morning after the patient 
had received his dose of methylprednisolone, was 
278 mg per deciliter (15.4 mmol per liter). A CSF 
The New England Journal of Medicine is produced by NEJM Group, a division of the Massachusetts Medical Society. Downloaded from nejm.org at National Taiwan University on March 5, 2026. 
 Copyright © 2026 Massachusetts Medical Society. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.


n engl j med 394;10  nejm.org  March 5, 2026
1014
The new engl and jour nal of medicine
treponemal antibody test and a rapid plasma reagin 
test were both negative. The worsening descending paralysis, despite the 
administration of thiamine, and new areflexia 
(rather than hyperreflexia) favor a peripheral ner-
vous system disease over a central process. In 
patients with the Guillain–Barré syndrome, the 
presence of albuminocytologic dissociation (an 
elevated level of protein in the CSF without pleo-
cytosis) is common, often with extremely elevated 
protein levels. The near-normal CSF results seen in 
this patient are more suggestive of botulism, my-
asthenia gravis, or LEMS. Botulism was now the leading diagnosis. The pa-
tient’s mother, who first arrived at the hospital 
on the morning of hospital day 3, stated that the 
patient often ate perishable foods that had been left 
at room temperature for several days. The state 
health department and the Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention (CDC) were contacted to request 
botulism antitoxin, and stool and serum samples 
were obtained and sent to the CDC for botulinum 
neurotoxin testing. The patient received the anti-
toxin 90 hours after presentation in the ED. Electro-
myography and nerve-conduction studies that were 
performed in the medical ICU 48 hours after ad-
ministration of the antitoxin showed the absence of 
motor-unit action potentials throughout his body, 
but sensory-nerve action potentials were found to 
be intact. Repetitive nerve stimulation showed nei-
ther a decremental response to slow rates of stimu-
lation nor a substantive incremental response to 
high rates of stimulation. Given the concern that the 
acute motor axonal neuropathy (AMAN) subtype of 
the Guillain–Barré syndrome, which involves mo-
tor axons only, remained a possible alternative ex-
planation for the patient’s presentation, empirical 
treatment with intravenous immune globulin (at a 
dose of 2 g per kilogram of body weight) was also 
administered. However, no neurologic improve-
ment was noted. A classic finding on electromyography and nerve-
conduction studies in patients with botulism is 
an incremental increase in the amplitude of the 
compound muscle action potential in response 
to high frequencies on repetitive nerve stimula-
tion. However, this finding is absent in some 
cases, and this patient’s exposure history is con-
sistent with foodborne botulism. The AMAN 
subtype of the Guillain–Barré syndrome could 
also explain the findings on electromyography 
and nerve-conduction studies; however, the pres-
ence of marked cranial-nerve involvement and 
the absence of both albuminocytologic dissocia-
tion and a response to intravenous immune globu-
lin makes this diagnosis unlikely. The absence of 
changes in response to repetitive nerve stimula-
tion and the lack of improvement after intrave-
nous immune globulin and glucocorticoid thera-
py argues against myasthenia gravis and LEMS. 
Although empirical treatment for botulism was 
appropriate, the delay between the patient’s pre-
sentation and receipt of the antitoxin was sub-
stantial; irreversible loss of function is possible. The results of the patient’s repeat neurologic ex-
amination remained unchanged. Fever and hypo-
tension resolved with antibiotic agents. The serum 
sample that had been analyzed by the CDC by 
means of mass spectrometry (Endopep-MS assay) 
was positive for botulinum neurotoxin type A. Neu-
rotoxin was not detected in the stool sample, and 
the results of the mouse bioassay were equivocal. 
However, the stool sample had arrived at the CDC at 
a temperature that was outside of standard storage 
temperatures, which may have led to false negative 
results. GM1 antibody testing was negative. Testing for botulinum neurotoxin is highly spe-
cific, and a positive result confirms the diagnosis 
of botulism. Negative GM1 antibody testing fur-
ther reduces the likelihood of the Guillain–Barré 
syndrome, including the AMAN subtype. The patient remained dependent on mechanical 
ventilation and underwent tracheostomy. Once his 
condition was medically stable, he was discharged 
to a long-term acute care facility. One month after 
diagnosis, a neurologic examination showed 0/5 
strength in both arms and hands, except for 1/5 
strength in finger flexion and extension. Strength 
was 1/5 in flexion and extension of both hips and 
both knees and 3/5 in dorsiflexion and plantar flex-
ion of both feet. After 3 months of rehabilitation 
after the administration of the antitoxin, the patient 
still had not regained voluntary function beyond 
movement of his feet. The New England Journal of Medicine is produced by NEJM Group, a division of the Massachusetts Medical Society. Downloaded from nejm.org at National Taiwan University on March 5, 2026. 
 Copyright © 2026 Massachusetts Medical Society. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.


n engl j med 394;10  nejm.org  March 5, 2026
1015
Clinical Problem-Solving
Commentary
This patient with alcohol use disorder presented 
with dyspnea, a globus sensation, and ophthal-
moplegia. After initial suspicion for anaphylaxis 
or angioedema, Wernicke’s encephalopathy was 
suspected. The subsequent development of de-
scending paralysis led to the diagnosis of botu-
lism. His botulism was probably foodborne, given 
his history of consuming perishable foods left at 
room temperature for several days. Unfortunately, 
his history of alcohol use disorder delayed his di-
agnosis, and the antitoxin was administered only 
after diaphragmatic paralysis had developed. Botulism is a rare and potentially fatal disor-
der caused by botulinum neurotoxin. This neuro-
toxin is produced by Clostridium botulinum, a spore-
forming, anaerobic, gram-positive bacterium found 
in soil, dust, and aquatic sediment. Botulinum 
neurotoxin has seven serotypes (types A through 
G), all of which cause paralysis by irreversibly in-
hibiting acetylcholine release at the neuromuscular 
junction of voluntary motor and autonomic neu-
rons (Fig. 2). Botulism can be caused by preformed 
toxin, as with foodborne and iatrogenic botulism 
(after cosmetic or therapeutic injections), or by lo-
cal production, as with wound botulism, intestinal 
colonization in adults, and infant botulism (infant 
intestinal colonization).1-3
Foodborne botulism in adults is uncommon, 
with only 326 cases reported in the United States 
between 2001 and 2017.4 Despite its classic asso-
ciation with foodborne botulism, improper home 
food canning accounted for only one third of these 
cases.4 Toxin production can occur in foods with 
low acidity, a low salt content, or a low sugar con-
tent that are contaminated with viable C. botulinum 
spores and have been left at ambient temperatures 
in low-oxygen conditions.2 Cases involving con-
sumption of chili and nacho cheese that had been 
packaged in plastic and improperly stored have 
been reported.4
Botulism is classically described as a symmet-
ric descending motor paralysis. However, symp-
toms vary in severity (from subclinical to fatal) 
and in rate of progression depending on the neu-
rotoxin serotype and exposure quantity.1-3,5 Symp-
toms typically begin 2 hours to 8 days after expo-
sure to the neurotoxin, with a peak at 48 hours.1,3,6 
In a large series of cases of botulism that led to 
hospitalization (86% of which were foodborne),6 
symmetric cranial-nerve palsies were often the 
initial symptom, manifesting as difficulties with 
vision or eye movement (e.g., diplopia, ptosis, vi-
sion blurriness, and ocular palsy) or bulbar weak-
ness (e.g., dysphagia, dysarthria, and dysphonia). 
General weakness, vomiting, nausea, dry mouth, 
and abdominal pain were also present in many 
cases. Respiratory distress was noted on admis-
sion in one third of the cases. Without treatment, 
symptoms can progress to symmetric limb motor 
weakness and neuromuscular respiratory failure 
resulting from diaphragmatic weakness.3,6 In some 
cases, cranial-nerve palsies contribute to respira-
tory failure resulting from pharyngeal collapse and 
airway compromise.3 There is usually no loss of 
sensation or consciousness. If fever is present, it is 
most likely explained by a superimposed infection. The differential diagnosis of symmetric de-
scending motor paralysis or symmetric cranial 
nerve palsies (or both) is limited and includes the 
Guillain–Barré syndrome, LEMS, myasthenia gra-
vis, Bickerstaff’s brain-stem encephalitis, viral 
encephalitis, a severe myopathy, and paralytic 
shellfish poisoning.3 In the absence of shellfish 
exposure, the occurrence of clusters of cases of 
symmetric descending motor paralysis strongly 
suggests botulism. The diagnosis of botulism is 
confirmed by the detection of neurotoxin in se-
rum and stool with the use of a combination of 
mouse bioassays and molecular tests.7 Although 
these assays are highly specific, their sensitivity is 
dependent on the timing of the sample collection 
relative to the onset of symptoms and administra-
tion of the antitoxin, as well as sample storage, 
the cause of the poisoning, and absorption and 
metabolism kinetics of the neurotoxin in the pa-
tient’s body.8,9 Botulinum neurotoxin has been 
detected in only 70% of samples obtained from 
patients with clinical foodborne botulism.8 Elec-
tromyography and nerve-conduction studies can 
be helpful because they often show small com-
pound muscle action potentials and incremental 
increases in amplitudes with high-frequency re-
petitive nerve stimulation.1 However, as in this 
case, some patients lack these findings, especially 
those with severe disease and those exposed to 
botulinum neurotoxin type A.10
Treatment of botulism includes the administra-
tion of the equine-derived heptavalent botulinum 
The New England Journal of Medicine is produced by NEJM Group, a division of the Massachusetts Medical Society. Downloaded from nejm.org at National Taiwan University on March 5, 2026. 
 Copyright © 2026 Massachusetts Medical Society. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.


n engl j med 394;10  nejm.org  March 5, 2026
1016
The new engl and jour nal of medicine
Figure 2. Botulinum Neurotoxin Mechanism of Action at the Neuromuscular Junction. The normal mechanism of acetylcholine (ACh) release at the neuromuscular junction (Panel A) involves soluble N-ethylmaleimide–
sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE)–mediated fusion of ACh-containing synaptic vesicles with the cellular membrane, 
resulting in ACh release. In cases of botulism (Panel B), botulinum neurotoxin (BoNT) — either preformed (foodborne or iatrogenic 
botulism) or locally produced (wound botulism, infant botulism [infant intestinal colonization], or intestinal colonization in adults) — 
reaches the neuromuscular junction, where it binds to receptors on the surface of nerve terminals and is internalized through endo-
cytosis followed by release of the BoNT light chain. Release of the BoNT light chain causes cleavage of the SNARE proteins and irrevers-
ible inhibition of ACh vesicle fusion and ACh release, which leads to the development of flaccid paralysis. IV denotes intravenous. SNARE proteins
PRESYNAPTIC
NEURON
Fusion and
ACh release
Synaptic vesicle
ACh
BoNT
light chain
BoNT heavy chain
Cleavage of 
SNARE proteins
No ACh release
Receptor-mediated 
endocytosis of BoNT
BoNT
BoNT
BLOODSTREAM
POSTSYNAPTIC
MUSCLE CELL
POSTSYNAPTIC MUSCLE CELL
ACh receptors
Synaptic cleft
PRESYNAPTIC
NEURON
ACh
Action potential 
and signal propagation
Foodborne
Wound-related
Contaminated foods
(e.g., improperly
canned goods)
(e.g., complication 
of IV drug use,
trauma)
Clostridium botulinum
produces BoNT in
low-oxygen conditions
A  Normal Neurotransmitter Release
B  Sources of Botulinum Neurotoxin (BoNT) and Mechanism of Neurotransmitter Release Inhibition
Iatrogenic
Cosmetic or 
therapeutic
injections
Intestinal
colonization
Adult intestinal
toxemia
Infant
Botulism
Intestinal
colonization
The New England Journal of Medicine is produced by NEJM Group, a division of the Massachusetts Medical Society. Downloaded from nejm.org at National Taiwan University on March 5, 2026. 
 Copyright © 2026 Massachusetts Medical Society. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.


n engl j med 394;10  nejm.org  March 5, 2026
1017
Clinical Problem-Solving
antitoxin, which inactivates all the antitoxin se-
rotypes and, for botulism that does not involve 
an infant, is exclusively available in the United 
States through the CDC.11 The antitoxin can arrest 
disease progression but does not reverse estab-
lished paralysis; reversal of paralysis requires the 
development of new nerve terminals.2,12 Therefore, 
state health departments should be contacted to 
initiate a CDC consultation for evaluation and 
treatment as soon as botulism is considered in 
order to minimize progression. (The CDC also 
coordinates epidemiologic investigations and con-
firmatory testing.) Administration of the antitoxin 
more than 48 hours after the onset of symptoms 
has been associated with longer ICU and hospital 
stays and decreased survival.5,11 Adverse reactions 
to the antitoxin are uncommon and generally self-
limited but include a risk of anaphylaxis (reported 
to occur in approximately 1.4% of patients13); epi-
nephrine should be available at the time of admin-
istration. Supportive critical care, which may include 
weeks to months of mechanical ventilation, is a 
cornerstone of management of severe cases of 
botulism; advancements in ventilator technology 
have been associated with reduced mortality.2,3,14 
Nevertheless, mortality remains as high as 10%, 
even among patients who receive the antitoxin, 
often owing to respiratory failure or sequelae of 
paralysis.6,11,14 Patients who survive often recover 
normal ventilatory muscle strength within 1 year, 
but fatigue, exercise intolerance, general weakness, 
dyspnea, and dry mouth can persist.2,3
This case underscores the need to consider 
botulism in the differential diagnosis for any pa-
tient presenting with acute-onset ophthalmoplegia 
and dysarthria and the critical importance of early 
administration of the antitoxin to reduce the risk 
of death and complications. Disclosure forms provided by the authors are available with 
the full text of this article at NEJM.org. We thank Joseph Tucker and Angel Miro-Gonzalez for assis-
tance with the preparation of the manuscript. Author Information
1 Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Univer-
sity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill; 2 Department of 
Neurology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel 
Hill; 3 Division of Pulmonary Diseases and Critical Care Medicine, 
Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill, Chapel Hill. References
1.	 Rao AK, Sobel J, Chatham-Stephens 
K, Luquez C. Clinical guidelines for diag-
nosis and treatment of botulism, 2021. 
MMWR Recomm Rep 2021;​70:​1-30. 2.	 Sobel J. Botulism. Clin Infect Dis 2005;​
41:​1167-73. 3.	 Wenham TN. Botulism: a rare compli-
cation of injecting drug use. Emerg Med 
J 2008;​25:​55-6. 4.	 Lúquez C, Edwards L, Griffin C, Sobel 
J. Foodborne botulism outbreaks in the 
United States, 2001–2017. Front Microbiol 
2021;​12:​713101. 5.	 Harvey RR, Cooper R, Bennett S, et al. 
Outbreak of foodborne botulism in an im-
migrant community: overcoming delayed 
disease recognition, ambiguous epidemio-
logic links, and cultural barriers to identify 
the cause. Clin Infect Dis 2017;​66:​Suppl 1:​
S82-S84. 6.	 Chatham-Stephens K, Fleck-Derderian 
S, Johnson SD, Sobel J, Rao AK, Meaney-
Delman D. Clinical features of foodborne 
and wound botulism: a systematic review 
of the literature, 1932–2015. Clin Infect Dis 
2017;​66:​Suppl 1:​S11-S16. 7.	 Centurioni DA, Egan CT, Perry MJ. 
Current developments in diagnostic as-
says for laboratory confirmation and in-
vestigation of botulism. J Clin Microbiol 
2022;​60(4):​e0013920. 8.	 Rasetti-Escargueil C, Lemichez E, 
Popoff MR. Toxemia in human naturally 
acquired botulism. Toxins (Basel) 2020;​
12:​716. 9.	 Lindström M, Korkeala H. Laboratory 
diagnostics of botulism. Clin Microbiol Rev 
2006;​19:​298-314. 10.	 Hughes JM, Blumenthal JR, Merson 
MH, Lombard GL, Dowell VR Jr, Ganga-
rosa EJ. Clinical features of types A and B 
food-borne botulism. Ann Intern Med 1981;​
95:​442-5. 11.	 Yu PA, Lin NH, Mahon BE, et al. Safety 
and improved clinical outcomes in patients 
treated with new equine-derived heptava-
lent botulinum antitoxin. Clin Infect Dis 
2017;​66:​Suppl 1:​S57-S64. 12.	de Paiva A, Meunier FA, Molgó J, Aoki 
KR, Dolly JO. Functional repair of motor 
endplates after botulinum neurotoxin type 
A poisoning: biphasic switch of synaptic 
activity between nerve sprouts and their 
parent terminals. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 
1999;​96:​3200-5. 13.	 Parrera GS, Astacio H, Tunga P, An-
derson DM, Hall CL, Richardson JS. Use 
of botulism antitoxin heptavalent (A, B, 
C, D, E, F, G)-(equine) (BAT) in clinical 
study subjects and patients: a 15-year sys-
tematic safety review. Toxins (Basel) 2021;​
14:​19. 14.	 Jackson KA, Mahon BE, Copeland J, 
Fagan RP. Botulism mortality in the USA, 
1975–2009. Botulinum J 2015;​3:​6-17. Copyright © 2026 Massachusetts Medical Society. The New England Journal of Medicine is produced by NEJM Group, a division of the Massachusetts Medical Society. Downloaded from nejm.org at National Taiwan University on March 5, 2026. 
 Copyright © 2026 Massachusetts Medical Society. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
